SI

A concise summary of the
International System of Units, SI

Metrology is the science of measurement and its application. Metrology includes
all theoretical and practical aspects of measurement, whatever the measurement
uncertainty and field of application.

The International Bureau of Weights and Measures (BIPM) was established by Article 1 of the Metre Convention, which was
signed on 20 May 1875. It is charged with providing the basis for a single, coherent system of measurements to be used
throughout the world and it operates under the authority of the International Committee for Weights and Measures (CIPM).
The decimal metric system, dating from the time of the French Revolution, was based in 1799 on the metre and the kilogram.
Under the terms of the Metre Convention, new international prototypes of the metre and kilogram were manufactured and
formally adopted by the first General Conference on Weights and Measures (CGPM) in 1889. In 1960 the 11th CGPM
formally defined and established the International System of Units (SI). Since then the SI has been periodically updated to take
account of advances in science and the need for measurements in new domains. The last major revision was adopted by the
26th CGPM (2018), which decided that the SI would be based on the fixed numerical values of a set of seven defining
constants from which the definitions of the seven base units of the SI would be deduced. This document is a summary of the
SI Brochure, a publication produced by the BIPM, which gives a detailed explanation of the current status of the SI.

The SI is the system of units in which:

· the unperturbed ground state hyperfine transition frequency of the caesium 133 atom, Cs, is 9 192 631 770 Hz,

· the speed of light in vacuum, c, is 299 792 458 m/s,

· the Planck constant, h, is 6.626 070 15 × 10-34 J s,

· the elementary charge, e, is 1.602 176 634 × 10-19 C,

· the Boltzmann constant, k, is 1.380 649 × 10-23 J/K,

· the Avogadro constant, NA, is 6.022 140 76 × 1023 mol-1,

· the luminous efficacy of monochromatic radiation of frequency 540 × 1012 Hz, Kcd, is 683 lm/W,

where the hertz, joule, coulomb, lumen, and watt, with unit symbols Hz, J, C, lm, and W, respectively, are related to the units
second, metre, kilogram, ampere, kelvin, mole, and candela, with unit symbols s, m, kg, A, K, mol, and cd, respectively,
according to Hz = s­1, J = kg m2 s­2, C = A s, lm = cd sr, and W = kg m2 s­3.

These definitions specify the exact numerical value of each constant when its value is expressed in the corresponding SI unit.
By fixing the exact numerical value, the unit becomes defined, since the product of the numerical value and the unit has to
equal the value of the constant, which is invariant.

The defining constants have been chosen such that, when taken together, their units cover all of the units of the SI. In general,
there is no one-to-one correspondence between the defining constants and the SI base units, except for the caesium frequency
Cs and the Avogadro constant NA. Any SI unit is a product of powers of these seven constants and a dimensionless factor.
For example: using Hz = s-1, one metre can be derived from the speed of light c and caesium frequency Cs,

1 m =  299   c          s  =  9 192 631 770    c   30.663 319 c                  .
            792               299 792 458     Cs                   Cs
                 458

The concept of base units and derived units was used to define the SI until 2018. These categories, although no longer essential
in the SI, are maintained in view of their convenience and widespread use. The definitions of the base units, which follow from
the definition of the SI in terms of the seven defining constants, are given in Table 1.
Table 1 The seven base units of the SI

Quantity             SI unit

time                 The second, symbol s, is the SI unit of time. It is defined by taking the fixed numerical value of the
length               caesium frequency, Cs, the unperturbed ground-state hyperfine transition frequency of the
mass                 caesium 133 atom, to be 9 192 631 770 when expressed in the unit Hz, which is equal to s-1.
electric current
                     The metre, symbol m, is the SI unit of length. It is defined by taking the fixed numerical value of
                     the speed of light in vacuum, c, to be 299 792 458 when expressed in the unit m s-1, where the
                     second is defined in terms of Cs.

                     The kilogram, symbol kg, is the SI unit of mass. It is defined by taking the fixed numerical value
                     of the Planck constant, h, to be 6.626 070 15 ×10-34 when expressed in the unit J s, which is equal
                     to kg m2 s-1, where the metre and the second are defined in terms of c and Cs.

                     The ampere, symbol A, is the SI unit of electric current. It is defined by taking the fixed numerical
                     value of the elementary charge, e, to be 1.602 176 634 ×10-19 when expressed in the unit C, which
                     is equal to A s, where the second is defined in terms of Cs.

thermodynamic        The kelvin, symbol K, is the SI unit of thermodynamic temperature. It is defined by taking the fixed
temperature          numerical value of the Boltzmann constant, k, to be 1.380 649 ×10-23 when expressed in the unit
                     J K-1, which is equal to kg m2 s-2 K-1, where the kilogram, metre and second are defined in terms of

                     h, c and Cs.

amount of substance  The mole, symbol mol, is the SI unit of amount of substance. One mole contains exactly
                     6.022 140 76 × 1023 elementary entities. This number is the fixed numerical value of the Avogadro
                     constant, NA, when expressed in the unit mol-1 and is called the Avogadro number.

                     The amount of substance, symbol n, of a system is a measure of the number of specified elementary
                     entities. An elementary entity may be an atom, a molecule, an ion, an electron, any other particle or
                     specified group of particles.

luminous intensity   The candela, symbol cd, is the SI unit of luminous intensity in a given direction. It is defined by

                     taking the fixed numerical value of the luminous efficacy of monochromatic radiation of frequency
                     540 × 1012 Hz, Kcd, to be 683 when expressed in the unit lm W-1, which is equal to
                     cd sr W-1, or cd sr kg-1 m-2 s3, where the kilogram, metre and second are defined in terms of h, c

                     and Cs.

All other quantities may be called "derived quantities" and are expressed using derived units, which can be written as products
of powers of base units. Twenty-two derived units are given a special name, as listed in Table 2.

Table 2 Derived units with special names in the SI

Derived quantity                     Name of derived unit  Symbol for unit  Expression in terms of other units

plane angle                          radian                rad              1
solid angle                          steradian             sr
frequency                            hertz                 Hz               1
force                                newton                N                s-1
pressure, stress                     pascal                Pa               kg m s-2
energy, work, amount of heat         joule                 J                N/m2 = kg m-1 s-2
power, radiant flux                  watt                  W                N m = kg m2 s-2
electric charge                      coulomb               C                J/s = kg m2 s-3
electric potential difference        volt                  V
capacitance                          farad                 F                As
electric resistance                  ohm                                    W/A = kg m2 s-3 A-1
electric conductance                 siemens               S                C/V = kg-1 m-2 s4 A2
magnetic flux                        weber                 Wb               V/A = kg m2 s-3 A-2
magnetic flux density                tesla                 T                A/V = kg-1 m-2 s3 A2
inductance                           henry                 H                V s = kg m2 s-2 A-1
Celsius temperature                  degree Celsius        °C               Wb/m2 = kg s-2 A-1
luminous flux                        lumen                 lm               Wb/A = kg m2 s-2 A-2
illuminance                          lux                   lx
activity referred to a radionuclide  becquerel             Bq               K
absorbed dose, kerma                 gray                  Gy
                                                                            cd sr
dose equivalent                      sievert               Sv               lm/m2 = cd sr m-2
catalytic activity                   katal                 kat              s-1
                                                                            J/kg = m2 s-2

                                                                            J/kg = m2 s-2
                                                                            mol s-1
Although the hertz and the becquerel are both equal to the reciprocal second, hertz is used only for periodic phenomena, and
becquerel is used only for stochastic processes in radioactive decay.

The unit of Celsius temperature is the degree Celsius, °C, which is equal in magnitude to the kelvin, K, the unit of
thermodynamic temperature. The quantity Celsius temperature t is related to thermodynamic temperature T by the equation
t/°C = T/K - 273.15.

The sievert is also used for the quantities `directional dose equivalent' and `personal dose equivalent'.

There are many more quantities than units. For each quantity, there is only one SI unit (although this may often be expressed in
different ways by using the special names), while the same SI unit may be used to express the values of several different
quantities (for example, the SI unit J/K may be used to express the value of both heat capacity and entropy). It is therefore
important not to use the unit alone to specify the quantity. This applies both to scientific texts and also to measuring
instruments (i.e. an instrument read-out should indicate both the quantity concerned and the unit).

There are quantities with the unit one, symbol 1, that are ratios of two quantities of the same kind. For example, refractive
index is the ratio of two speeds, and relative permittivity is the ratio of the permittivity of a dielectric medium to that of free
space. There are also quantities that are a number of entities, for example, the number of cellular or biomolecular entities.
These quantities also have the unit one. The unit one is the neutral element of any system of units. Quantities with the unit one
can therefore be considered as traceable to the SI. However, when expressing the values of quantities with the unit one, the unit
symbol 1 is not written.

Decimal multiples and sub-multiples of SI units
A set of prefixes have been adopted for use with the SI units in order to express the values of quantities that are either much
larger than, or much smaller than, the SI unit when used without any prefix. They can be used with any SI unit. The SI prefixes
are listed in Table 3.

Table 3 The SI prefixes

Factor  Name    Symbol   Factor  Name    Symbol
101     deca       da    10-1    deci        d
102     hecto       h    10-2    centi       c
103     kilo        k    10-3    milli      m
106     mega       M     10-6    micro       µ
109     giga        G    10-9    nano        n
1012    tera        T    10-12   pico        p
1015    peta        P    10-15   femto       f
1018    exa         E    10-18   atto        a
1021    zetta       Z    10-21   zepto       z
1024    yotta       Y    10-24   yocto       y
1027    ronna       R    10-27   ronto       r
1030    quetta      Q    10-30   quecto      q

When the prefixes are used, the prefix name and the unit name are combined to form a single word. Similarly, the prefix
symbol and the unit symbol are written without any space to form a single symbol, which may itself be raised to any power.
For example, we may write: kilometre, km; microvolt, µV; or femtosecond, fs.

When the SI units are used without any prefixes, the resulting set of units is described as being coherent in the following
sense: when only coherent units are used, equations between the numerical values of quantities take exactly the same form as
the equations between the quantities themselves. The use of a coherent set of units has technical advantages, for example in
quantity calculus (see the SI Brochure).

The kilogram, kg, is problematic because the name already includes a prefix, for historical reasons. Multiples and
sub-multiples of the kilogram are written by combining prefixes with the gram: thus we write milligram, mg,
not microkilogram, µkg.

Units outside the SI
The SI is the only system of units that is universally recognized, so it has a distinct advantage for establishing international
dialogue. The use of the SI, as a standard system of units, simplifies the teaching of science. For these reasons, the use of
SI units is recommended in all fields of science and technology. Other units, i.e. non-SI units, are generally defined in terms of
SI units using conversion factors.
Nonetheless, some non-SI units are still widely used. A few, such as the minute, hour and day as units of time, will always be
used because they are part of our culture. Others are used for historical reasons, to meet the needs of special interest groups, or
because there is no convenient SI alternative. It will always remain the prerogative of a scientist to use the units that are
considered to be best suited to the purpose. However, when non-SI units are used, the correspondence to the SI should always
be quoted. A selection of non-SI units is listed in Table 4 with their conversion factors to the SI. For a more comprehensive
list, see the SI Brochure.

Table 4 A selection of non-SI units

Quantity  Unit                       Symbol  Relation to SI
time      minute                     min     1 min = 60 s
time      hour                       h       1 h = 3600 s
time      day                        d       1 d = 86 400 s
volume    litre                      L or l  1 L = 1 dm3
mass      tonne                      t       1 t = 1000 kg
energy    electronvolt               eV      1 eV = 1.602 176 634 × 10-19 J

The symbol for the litre is an exception to the general rule that the first letter of a unit symbol is only a capital when the unit is
named after a person; either a lower case letter `l' or a capital `L' may be used, the capital is allowed in this case to avoid
confusion between the lower case letter l and the number one, 1.

The language of science: using the SI to express the values of quantities

The value of a quantity is written as the product of a number and a unit. The number multiplying the unit is the numerical value
of the quantity in that unit. A single space is always left between the number and the unit. The numerical value depends on the
choice of unit, so that the same value of a quantity may have different numerical values when expressed in different units, as in
the examples provided below.

    The speed of a bicycle is approximately
    v = 5.0 m/s = 18 km/h.
    The wavelength of one of the yellow lines of the sodium doublet is
     = 5.896 × 10-7 m = 589.6 nm.

Quantity symbols are written using italic (slanting) type, and they are generally single letters of the Latin or Greek alphabet.
Either capital or lower case letters may be used, and additional information on the quantity may be added as a subscript or as
information in parentheses.

Authorities such as the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) and international scientific unions such as the
International Union of Pure and Applied Physics (IUPAP) and the International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry
(IUPAC) have specified recommended symbols for many quantities. Examples include:

    T for thermodynamic temperature
    Cp for heat capacity at constant pressure
    xi for the mole fraction (amount fraction) of species i
    µr for relative permeability.

Unit symbols are written using roman (upright) type, regardless of the type used in the surrounding text. They are
mathematical entities and not abbreviations; unit symbols are never followed by a full stop (except at the end of a sentence) nor
by an `s' for the plural. The use of the correct form for unit symbols is mandatory, and is illustrated by examples in the SI
Brochure. Unit symbols may be more than a single letter. They are written in lower case letters (for example: metre, m; second,
s; or mole, mol), the exception being that the first letter is a capital when the unit is named after a person (for example: ampere,
A; kelvin, K; hertz, Hz; or coulomb, C). However, when the name of a unit is spelled in full, it should begin with a lower case
letter (except at the beginning of a sentence), to distinguish the unit from the person (for example, the name kelvin for the unit
of thermodynamic temperature is derived from the proper name Kelvin).

When writing the value of a quantity as the product of a numerical value and a unit, both the number and the unit may be
treated by the ordinary rules of algebra. For example, the equation T = 293 K may equally be written as T/K = 293.
This procedure is described as the use of quantity calculus, or the algebra of quantities. It is often useful to use the ratio of a
quantity to its unit as the heading for columns in a table, or for labelling the axes of a graph, so that the entries in the table or
the labels for the tick marks on the axes are all simply denoted by numbers. The example (Table 5) shows a table of the
velocity squared versus pressure, with the columns labelled in this way.
Table 5 Example of column heading in a table of the velocity squared versus pressure

p/kPa   2/(m/s)2

48.73   94 766

72.87   94 771

135.42  94 784

In forming products or quotients of unit symbols the normal rules of algebra apply. In forming products of unit symbols, a
space should be left between units (or alternatively a half-high centred dot can be used as a multiplication symbol).
The importance of the space should be noted: the product of a metre and a second is denoted by m s (with a space), but ms
(without a space) is used to denote a millisecond. In addition, when forming complicated products of units, brackets or
negative exponents should be used to avoid ambiguities. For example, the molar gas constant R is given by:

            pVm/T = R = 8.314 Pa m3 mol-1 K-1
                          = 8.314 Pa m3/(mol K).

When formatting numbers, the decimal marker may be either a point (i.e. a full stop) or a comma, depending on the
circumstances. For documents in the English language a point is usual, but for many languages and in many countries a comma
is usual.

When a number has many digits, it is customary to group the digits into threes about the decimal point to aid readability.
This is not essential, but it is often done and is generally helpful. When this format is used, the groups of three digits should be
separated only by a space. Neither dots nor commas are ever inserted in the spaces between groups.

The uncertainty in the numerical value of a quantity may often be conveniently shown by giving the uncertainty in the least
significant digits in parentheses after the number.

For example: The value of the electron mass is given in the 2014 CODATA listing of fundamental constants as

          me = 9.109 383 56 (11) × 10-31 kg,

where 11 is the standard uncertainty in the final digits quoted for the numerical value.

For further information, see the BIPM website, or the SI Brochure 9th edition, which is available at

www.bipm.org

This summary has been prepared by the Comité Consultatif des Unités (CCU) of the Comité International des Poids et Mesures
(CIPM), and is published by the BIPM.

                                                                                                                                           Version 4.01
